## This is my first ST 558 blog post

### What do you think being a data scientist is about?  
Being a data scientist is about combining computer science skills with applied statistics 
knowledge in order to extract valuable insights from intimidating amounts of data which are
often problematic for the traditional statistician. 

### What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?  
Data scientists need to be well versed in computer programming and applied statistical methods.
Knowledge of the underlying mathematics in statistical models is also quite important for data 
scientists since the data engineers are expected to have expertise in model implementation instead.

### What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?  
Both data scientists and statisticians are expected to know a good amount of mathematics. While both 
are  required to understand the mathematical underpinnings of the models they use, it is more common
for statisticians to be familiar with model derivations and theoretical justifications. Statisticians 
also are more accustomed to smaller datasets coming from surveys and designed experiments while data 
scientists often work with very large datasets.

### How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?
Given my background and interests, I would most comfortably fit in with the theoretical statisticians. 
My strongest abilities have been in mathematical derivation and less so in computer programming. 
